hello everyone I I'm Steven Zaillian
deputy of the efest project and you're
gonna be talking bit about what we've
included in easier got five release its
a massive release includes changes for
almost a year of time so a lot of new
features a lot of bug fixes I first up
contra Braddock this was really the main
focus this release was to fix contact
reading yeah and to like make it so you
could really quickly resolve content
because for a while there and a customer
comes taking a while actually find the
content main part of this feature miss
Deborah was Cypress this is the code
name for a new PhD but you're all here
all about it in next presentation so I
won't actually talk about too much here
but I can give you some metrics this is
what it looked like when we switched
over this is what the public or Pender's
looks like when we switched over from
the previous release 0.4 dot 23 to this
release here about five you can see here
I nobody can see my max in the first
quadrant this is the number of dials
that's the text you have the form that
the green is number kept as you perform
did we do a query and then on the right
hand side that's after the release
massive reduced number of tiles if you
look at the graph in the upper right
hand quadrant before the green there is
the number of provides the finish and
actually succeeded and the top is in a
birth fine succeeded so the provides
with the announcement saying I have the
content the finds are the query Network
try find the content and then on the
right you can see that it is going to
higher per second both sides bottom left
hand quadrant you can see that again a
controverting like announcements or
basically timing out now this will take
a while this will get a lot better as a
network upgrades but they're actually
finishing and finally in the bottom
right hand quadrant you can see before
it was taking like well what quite a bit
longer to resolve content than all the
right yeah so again come back here this
number is a highly variable it's very
noisy data these numbers almost go
upgrades so like one of the reasons this
trip is the trickiest we were not just
making changes to the query logic that
was occurring but network we would
continue just like the other side a lot
of the the server side of logic to make
the entire network faster that means an
orca upgrade finally there are a lot
more purpose in the way so we're not sin
away from never to upgrade no we have a
couple of tricks up our sleeves like try
to at least give you some like initial
speed of bump when you're starting the
query so you don't have to like deal
with a so number okay moving on to the
next slide content exchange this is
something work a lot on last year we
worked a lot on really improving bit
swap making it faster so again I'm not
to talk too much about this because
there's gonna be a presentation later on
or a demo but basically we massively
reduce the basis of and with duplicate
blocks if you look at the bottom right
hand graph here basically that red lines
bottom that's that's a new bit swap and
that's how many do put blocks there
isn't the test zero
uh-huh and then if you look at the top
graph you can see that like this or the
top line here is with basically one
person serving data or person fetching
data in both the old version a new
person same speed but then as you go
down to this bottom red line that's with
four people serving data and what are
some pension data you can see through
that is much faster than this well blue
line here which is in the old release
yeah so it's about 30% faster at least
in this graph
yeah so basically we just massively
increase the parallelism a bit swap and
reduce the blocks next up we actually
have experimental sport or something
called graph seconds release a graph
sync is a experimental server-side sport
graphs like it's new exchange vertical
Bowl where bit swap if you want piece of
data if you would ask for every single
little piece from the network with
graphs think you just kind of like tell
your peers get description of the subset
of the data you want and they send you
all the data at once this is tricky
because like what you need to go
describe this upset to each building
like take up they take a description of
the subset they break into smaller
description secretly fetch one bit from
someone and one day someone
we haven't quite figured out that second
part get so for now we use if we allow
people to ask for date of you isn't
grandpa passing so cuz I'm a special
purpose tool in this pull out like pull
lot of data for you but your ifs know
will actually pull data from other users
vertical however we hope this welding
service and stuff like that but if they
use like polo data from clients all at
once and that they know exactly who they
want to pull it from they can write a
custom tool but just like slip to ball
today to really really quickly it
doesn't have a bunch of round trips or
other overhead that's crap sake okay
moving on to import export import export
is how we add into IBM s and get it out
of I PMS this release has two features
here one a performance I we have a two
three in precursor in this release we've
improved our like new experimental data
sort by two to three X that's this news
bubbles with the asuras called badger we
didn't write badger but we integrated
into collective has this number here the
rather the red bar is how long it took
to add the art repo I before this
released the yellow bar is Helen took
Africa release notice the green bar is
how long it takes just copy and paste
the art repo on the same machine
so basically we're like you can happy to
check with us as fast as you can just
copy it from like disc back to the disc
this blue bar here it only takes a flat
FS that's still important the default
data store it's the default data store
for two reasons listed here
one badger votes on visit spiked to one
gigabyte a memory usage this is an issue
or planning of fixing it but we still
need to fix it hopefully with the next
couple of releases and back in badger GC
or commerce collection of like deleted
data we actually were claiming deleted
stairs base from deleted data doesn't
always work as well as we hope so we're
trying to improve that a bit before we
say okay it's another default
okay second big feature was important
export of Dax
so the cool let's feature is like it
allows you to give up FSS CID and then
instead of like getting back a bunch of
individual files like uh supposed to
give you a like it this is the special
archive of all the little pieces of the
file as IB fest sees it so that means
that when you re import this data you're
always gonna get the same CID back out
this means if you take like any set of
files or any data set you have an IP
fest it's a bundle up into the same
wheel of a car file or contents of
archive ship it off to another computer
and then re-import it or like send it
off to someone else to archive it or
something like this finally down here I
have this line you can use with netcat
so if if graphs link isn't passing for
you but so far fast enough for you and
you really just need to get data and one
computer to the other you can use
Daggett Sports expert on one computer
neck at a different computer import on
the other computer and it's going to be
just as fast as you can get yeah
next up loopy to be in ages there are
tons of lipid to be changes in this
released first up improves auto auto net
is our service for detecting if you have
her if you're behind a firewall but it's
a technic to see if if you can receive
you now connections and which addresses
you can receive your backpack just on
the main purpose this we serve faster
automate detection a lot of
rate-limiting a lot of dial back
restrictions and filtering we've added
all this because we're actually enabling
by default now every single node will
use the network to determine like or do
you use Potter net with the network
determine if they are publicly reachable
and they will also help other on network
but we don't want to overlook but I just
like ask them to do a bunch of work on
behalf the network so we had to do but
much right next steps here in 0-6 we're
gonna have even faster Matt detection
basically more event pace so that
instead of like pulling on some interval
like we see a new peer and we see this
be caught enough you just ask them hey
am i public karamja credit so that
should bring the time down to it it's
very very short time and then deeper
integration with the PP currently have a
bit of an issue or like will detect a
bunch of addresses
and those purposes external assets but
not really sure which ones worse which
ones don't actually work if we can
integrate Internet and so the part work
to be but tightly then we can reduce the
number Chris to be advertised we're
trying to speed up a lot of operations
in the network because it means instead
of like trying to connect to a bunch of
addresses whether some of them may work
and so it might not work going in a
trial address okay next step we switch
to TLS by default her goes of you don't
know this is TLS is a transport security
layer or transport layer security
protocol i it is a yeah it basically
it's a protocol for Krypton connections
currently we're using Sakai oh but TLS
is much well or much better understood
and it's been actually proven at this
point yeah so basically he just has
better security properties it's faster
actually use a lot less of you yeah next
up we're us gonna be introducing up
another ski or has Vocaloids
for they drop with JavaScript and
languages noise select simpler diplomat
50 less although I don't believe it's
quite as well and just as well
understood is he less appeal us as the
Burkle it scares entire web uh-huh
and then we will be deprecating our
current a secured transfer called psycho
in future so that we can use these like
well tested well understood script
transports okay quick draft 27 we've
updated the good protocol version in his
release it should be the final updated
with protocol version before we actually
mark it stable and just like to be using
that same quick protocol version so
expect to see critics work by default in
0.6 this has been a long time in the
making for this if you don't know what
this is quic is a UDP based transport
grab the tcp-based
probably mean a lot to many of you but
basically what this means it's in fact
we can keep working it's opened you
could or you can you can talk more peers
at once and there's less overhead bits
goes minutes faster
finally we've switched the address
format I bring this up here because I
can confuse people they don't understand
what's happening here before you would
see addresses like its first one bit
start with ipv4 100 or whatever so ipfs
because this is this came from before
when he was actually bundled him to hide
behind us now it's been attractive s so
we use the p2p address from right here
the main reason we did this is like this
first one can look like a file sometimes
it give you see a slash ipfs /q of
something people say oh that's a file no
it's not files I should have an address
but note on network so you want to
disambiguate that ok
gateway made a couple previously get one
here a big one was something gateways
I'm not gonna talk about this too much
because Lytle is going to give a
presentation on this pretty soon but
it's really cool and you should pay
attention to that presentation this is
actually really really big for adapts
second of all a small director listen
compression I'm just excited about this
because like it looks a lot nicer now it
now if you've listed rectory through
gateway get this nice little screen here
with nice header yeah I penis in a
couple improvements IP NS we're still
gonna have to make a lot of improvements
in the next releases and we also need to
see less common these features buy more
features in the way
first up transparent NS you can see out
here that I have I profess that ii
thought i pn s top-level host normally
this previously this FB i-- be nice to
eat the link i peanuts that local host
but the cool part here is now is
basically like for that beef s you can
resolve Sasha happiness / something got
eath without having to hack tack on the
extra doubling so it looks market if you
want this to be truly dated you'll have
to install it and you nest resolver
locally on your computer and set the
ESRI DNS resolver but IPS does not
provide that out of the box because they
were required ingesting the entire there
in blocking the second up base to be to
IPS most people you're probably won't
care too much about this there's
something care a lot about this
you can now encode I penis
addresses in base 32 using CI keys
improve happiness more puffs up or in
other words make a penis pastor I this
is still experimental it's going to be
stabilized pub sub in 0 6
but basically what so normally when you
tried to resolve an IP and s address you
have to search the DHT which is slow and
it's faster but still not as fast it
could be but so a penis for pub/sub what
you do is like you find pure other peers
that are interested in the same IPS key
and then you subscribe to updates as I
think that's key for instance appears
this the improvement here allows to
actually proactively go and fetch these
updates from other peers when we first
find them so before we have to using it
subscribe the updates
let me still search the DHT for the
initial value now we can find out the
perception the topic and just ask you
directly
hey what's long stuff that means it's
like especially if you already connect
Spears which is often case if you're all
interested in the same content just you
usually this and it's correlated you can
just get these I finished results really
quickly but again you have the newest
it's experimental
ok and a lot more
I probably over time now a so yeah
you're just badger memory usage flood
has improvements a ton of random stuff
isn't often I mention I just has new
ignore than no reals path flags we've
gotten rid of the I feel this for me
feel fsck command basically use do
probably these annoying error API not
running figure that that's no longer
problem the easy idea will make such
post requests this helps tighten
somewhere that security API the dark
nicknames that bill with openness is so
my default this should reduce CPU usage
unfortunately the transpersonal these
open SSL so increase if you use it just
evaporates and I'll have to like
implement open openness us support for
the TLS transport that's another thing
improve TLS improve systems II support
this is really important if you're using
a server somewhere
I basically now if s ports socket
activation and system G notifications so
you can properly order other services
after I do that you can wait for active
this to start up you can also say life
is like restart
matically the difficult things and a
much more as well I'm not gonna get into
most of this you can now run type of SPS
- a stream to stream like Alyssa pines'
in London buffer old server all at once
so before if you write like 4 Souls
their pitiless discuss it there for a
very long time then eventually spit over
budget at you now all this continue to
this big data so it doesn't like each
person oh for Windows if you double
click the opposite you've seen Windows
now it'll just inish money malicious I
should we go for you and it'll started a
bit so it's like now I said I capital
return 1 think times don't quit the ice
give seac repo or so I just see binary
angels work that is pretty much
everything that's important that our ton
of other things are fixed I am sorry for
coming for time I thank you all